## subtitle: Create a KPI token through the Carrot dapp

If the chosen KPI token template supports it, at a certain point in the KPI
token creation flow you will be asked to pick one or more oracles to use. In
order to use the Reality.eth v3 oracle template, simply pick it from the
provided picker.

After doing that you will be presented with the template's creation form. Below
is a detailed description of all the available parameters and how they affect
the created oracle.

**If at any point you need more information, check out the
[official Reality.eth documentation](https://reality.eth.limo/app/docs/html/index.html).**

## Arbitrator

An arbitrator is responsible for providing a final answer to a question when
there is a dispute, in exchange for a fee. If the arbitrator is untrustworthy,
the system cannot be relied on to provide accurate answers, so that's why
whitelisted arbitrators are available to be picked from a dropdown.

Since arbitration is expensive, it will usually only be requested after parties
have posted bonds, and the bonds have escalated to a level where the bond you
stand to gain by paying for arbitration is higher than the fee. Accordingly,
arbitrators should feel free to set fairly high fees that will adequately cover
the cost of a thorough arbitration process.

## Question type

Self explanatory. The question type determines the type of answer users will
have to input in the final answer form. Available values (as picked from the
dropdown) are:

-   **Yes/no**: this will make the question a binary one, where allowed
    responses will only be yes or no, picked from a response form that will
    consist of 2 radio buttons. Needless to say, this type of question/response
    lends itself well to binary goals that are either fully reached or not.
-   **Number**: this will usually make the question a scalar one, where the
    allowed response will only be a number, typed in a response form that will
    consist of a number input. This type of question/response lends itself well
    to scalar goals that support a payout range.

## Question timeout

This value represents how much time people will have to correct incorrect
responses after they are posted. 24 hours usually strikes a good balance between
resolution time and security. You may prefer a longer setting if you think your
question will need time to come to the attention of people qualified to answer
it, or a shorter setting if you think many people will be paying attention
within a short timespan, but be careful as low values make it easier for
maliciously wrong answers to slip in.

## Opening timestamp

A Reality.eth oracle can be created with an opening timestamp in the future if
the answer to the question it asks can only be known in the future. This value
determines when the question will become answerable by users.

Due to the risks involved in setting this value too late compared to the KPI
token's expiration date, a rule is enforced on compatible KPI tokens that at
least 3 full resolution periods must pass between the opening of the question to
answers and the KPI token expiration. This is to avoid occasions in which the
KPI token expires worthless exclusively because (maliciously or not) a KPI token
creator has chosen the opening timestamp and the expiration values too close to
each other to allow for an organic answer resolution process to take place.

## Minimum bond

It's possible to enforce a minimum bond that will be applied to the question as
soon as it opens up for answer. Setting a minimum bond can ensure no spamming
happens on the question due to the low barrier of entry.

## Question

A self explanatory value. This is the question text that will need to be
answered using the crowdsourced Reality.eth oracle.
