---
subtitle: Create a KPI token through the Carrot dapp
---

In order to create a KPI token, you can simply go to the dapp's homepage and
either click on "create campaign" in the hero section that is presented to you
right away or scroll down to the "templates" section below, locate the ERC20 KPI
token in the list and click on the "use template" button.

A brief description about what the template is about and its features are
presented in the template card in the "templates" section.

After clicking on "use template" a fullscreen modal should pop up with the
creation form loaded from the template's latest version.

A guide is presented below on how to fill the creation form based on what you
want to create.

## General information

The first step collects generic information about the campaign you want to
create. In particular:

-   **Title**: the campaign's title should be short and memorable and tell
    potential users what the campaign is about.
-   **Description**: the campaign's description is a potentially long text that
    supports Markdown through a powerful in-app editor. As many details as
    possible about the campaign should go here, including an exhaustive
    description about the goal it's trying to achieve and how to exactly measure
    if the goal was achieved or not.
-   **Tags**: tags are arbitrary short strings mainly used for discoverability.
-   **Expiration**: the expiration date for the KPI token. The expiration
    mechanism is there to protect the KPI token creator from potentially
    malicious oracles that could lock in collaterals by becoming unresponsive.
    If the KPI token is not finalized by the expiration date, any collateral
    minus any minimum payout paid out to KPI token holders will be returned to
    the KPI token creator. The expiration date should be chosen so that it's
    reasonably later compared to when oracles are expected to know the outcome
    of a condition.
-   **ERC20 token name, symbol and supply**: these are informations that will be
    used to create and mint the onchain ERC20 tokens that represent a claim to
    the collateral. Choose them depending on what you want to incentivize.

## Collaterals

The second step is fully dedicated to the selection of collaterals. Up to 5
ERC20 token amounts can be selected as collaterals and a minimum payout can also
be specified.

In order to add a collateral to the collaterals list, you start by selecting a
token from the token selector located in the left part of the form. By clicking
it, an ERC20 token picker should pop up, showing supported tokens in the
official Carrot token list by default. You can search among the available tokens
using the searchbar in the top part of the modal, and if you don't find what
you're looking for you can add arbitrary tokens by pasting their address in the
same searchbar. If the address points to a valid ERC20 token, an import row will
be displayed and the token will be successfully imported.

If you want to have more choices token list wise, you can click the "manage
lists" button in the bottom part of the modal and pick a different list from
where to load tokens from.

Once you have selected a token you can use the number input at the right side of
the token picker in order to specify the amount you want to use as collateral,
and the number input below it to specify any minimum payout you want to set.

If you want, you can quickly select the maximum amount available in your
currently connected wallet by clicking the orange "max" text to the right of the
displayed balance right below the token box.

Keep in mind that a protocol fee is applied to the chosen collaterals and its
value (both in percentage and absolute terms) can be seen in the bottom part of
the collateral picker box once you've typed in an amount in the number input.

The chosen minimum payout can't be more or equal than the "standard" amount of
collateral minus any protocol fee, as that would mean no collateral would be
dynamically unlocked based on the condition results, making the created KPI
token pointless. In those cases, explicative errors are shown and the "add to
campaign" button will be disabled.

Once you're satisfied with the input amounts, and if the data is valid, the "add
to campaign" button will be enabled, and by clicking it you should see the input
values being moved to the collateral table below. The collateral rows will show
the effective collateral amount the KPI token will hold after any protocol fee
has been taken, and you can hover the "total amount" column for each collateral
row in order to have an exhaustive fee breakdown shown to you.

It's possible to remove wrong collateral entries by clicking on the "x" icon to
the left of the collateral row you want to remove.

By default, if a collateral row is added with the same token to one of the
collateral rows already present in the table, the row in the table will be
overwritten, so you can use this feature to correct any mistake you've made
while adding rows to the table.

Once you're satisfied with the collaterals, click the "next" button to move
forward with the KPI token creation.

## Oracle configuration

At the moment, only the Reality.eth v3 oracle template is present in the Carrot
protocol, so by default it is autoselected by the ERC20 KPI token template and
you're presented with its creation form. In normal conditions an additional step
would be presented to you asking to pick the oracle templates you want to use
for the KPI token.

To see how the various fields on the Reality.eth v3 oracle template creation
form can be populated, check out the specific guide made on that (TODO: add link
to the Reality.eth v3 oracle template creation form).

Once you're satisfied with the oralce configuration click the "next" button.

## Outcome configuration

The outcome configuration step takes care to instruct the KPI token template on
how to interpret results coming from the selected oracle.

2 types of congifurations are available:

-   **Categorical**: if you want to have a "yes/no" type of condition (i.e. was
    the goal reached yes or no), this is the correct choice. You will need to
    enable the "binary" switch in the UI, and this will automatically disable
    the lower and higher bound number inputs below.
-   **Scalar**: if you want to have a range type of condition (i.e. in cases
    where you want to track numeric values and have collaterals unlocked
    depending on where the final result falls within a range), this is the
    correct choice. In order to specify it, first disable the "binary" switch
    above (if currently enable) and enter the lower and higher bound values
    manually.

Extra care has to be taken while filling in these values as the collaterals
unlocking strictly depends on this. The ERC20 KPI token template unlocks
collaterals based on these values, so misconfigured values an result in KPI
tokens not behaving as expected.

In order to mitigate the aforementioned issue, the ERC20 KPI token creation form
tries to determine whether you want to create categorical or scalar tokens based
on the oracle configuration performed in the prior step. This won't work in all
cases though, and in general you should review the configuration even if
automatically applied by the ERC20 KPI token creation form.

In case an automatic setting of the outcome configuration has been performed,
the message below will be shown to the user. Please double check any automatic
configuration and see if it matches up with the oracle configuration you have
performed.

Once you're satisfied with the outcome configuration click the "next" button.

## Deployment

It's finally the time to deploy your KPI token. 2 simple steps are required in
order to deploy the KPI token on-chain:

-   **Collateral(s) approval**: this step requires you to approve all the picked
    collaterals for usage by the created KPI token. Click on the "Approve
    (currently approved token symbol)" button until all collaterals are
    approved. At this point, the create button should be enabled.
-   **Creation**: by clicking on the "create" button below once it becomes
    enabled you'll be able to deploy the KPI token on-chain as configured by you
    in the previous steps.

## Final step

Once the create transactions has been validated on-chain, you'll be able to
visit the campaign's page for the KPI token you just created. Congratulations!

Additionally, you should see the minted ERC20 tokens minted by Carrot to
represent the conditional collateral for your campaign in your possession in the
wallet you've used to create the campaign. You can now go ahead and distribute
these tokens to the people you believe will have the most impact in reaching the
goal you want to achieve in order to incentivize them to reach it.

Follow the "interaction guide" (TODO: link to interaction guide) below to learn
how to navigate the ERC20 KPI token campaign page.
