---
title: ERC20 KPI Token Template
subtitle:
    Create Composable and Flexible ERC20 KPI Tokens for Farming and Airdrops
---

The ERC20 KPI Token Template allows users to create ERC20 tokens that can be
easily distributed through farming or airdrops. These tokens can be backed by
multiple ERC20 collaterals tied to user-defined conditions. Let's explore the
characteristics and functionality of this template in detail.

## Collaterals

This template supports up to 5 ERC20 tokens as collaterals. These tokens will be
unlocked, either in full or partially (depending on the condition setup), at the
time of finalization. They can be sent back to the KPI token owner or made
available for redemption by KPI token holders (or both, as explained in
subsequent sections).

Additionally, the template incorporates the concept of minimum payouts. Minimum
payouts ensure that a certain amount of collateral is always paid out to KPI
token holders at finalization or expiration time, regardless of the current
condition of the goal (whether reached or not).

## Conditions (Oracles)

The template allows up to 5 different oracles to relay condition results. In the
current implementation, each condition corresponds to an equal portion of the
underlying collateral.

Let's illustrate this with a few examples to clarify how it works:

1. Suppose we have a simple ERC20 KPI token with a single oracle and 1,000,000
   DAI as collateral. In this case, the oracle governs the entire 1,000,000 DAI
   collateral. The result provided by the oracle is the sole data used by the
   template to determine the amount of collateral to unlock for KPI token
   holders and the amount to send back.

2. In a KPI token with the same 1,000,000 DAI collateral as above, but with 2
   oracles, each piece of data will govern 50% of the collateral. Hence, 500,000
   DAI will be allocated to the first oracle, and the remaining 500,000 DAI will
   be allocated to the second oracle.

3. Consider a more complex example of a multi-collateral, multi-oracle KPI token
   with 1,000 DAI and 2 WETH as collaterals and 2 oracles. In this case, each
   piece of data will govern 50% of EACH collateral. Thus, the first oracle will
   control 500 DAI and 1 WETH, while the second oracle will control the
   remaining 500 DAI and 1 WETH.

As seen in the last example, when multiple oracles are applied to a
multi-collateral KPI token, each oracle governs a portion of each collateral.

## Finalization Logic

The template incorporates its own finalization logic based on bounds, offering
flexibility to meet various needs.

Bounds can be set to guide the template in interpreting the results provided by
oracles. This allows the seamless expression of both categorical (yes/no) and
scalar (range) goals when creating the KPI token.

In the categorical case, the template interprets the oracle answers in two
distinct ways: yes or no. If the answer indicates a YES (goal reached), the
collaterals will be fully unlocked for KPI token holders to redeem. If the
answer is NO (goal not reached), the collaterals (minus any minimum payout) will
be returned to the KPI token owner.

TODO: Write about expiration logic TODO: Provide details on upcoming, not yet
implemented features (e.g., multi-oracle and condition weighting)
